Confirmands, did you remember
any part of the Gospel?
Jesus says something
there about some bread.
Did you hear it?
In the second part of the Gospel,
Jesus says, "Your fathers ate manna and
died." Then He says about Himself, "I
am the living bread that came down from
heaven; whoever eats this bread will
have life." Now, this is very important
for you, confirmands, to remember.
Why?
Because on Saturday you receive
confirmation, and on Sunday
half of you are not at Mass.
This has already become a
tradition among our confirmands.
And for you to understand why you need
to come on Sunday, I will now talk about
the Holy Mass and this bread, what it is.
So that Mass is not something boring.
Because if you understand today what
Mass is, what Jesus says about this
bread, you will come to Mass again.
When God created the world, and
we know the first humans sinned,
God sought a way to help them.
He then chose the Israeli people and
wanted to lead them out of slavery.
He made a covenant with them,
known as the Ark of the Covenant.
While the Israeli people were freed
from slavery, they always carried
this Ark of the Covenant with them,
just like you girls carry your purses.
So, you always have something
important in your purse.
The Israelites had the Ark
of the Covenant, which was
very important to them.
Why?
Because it was a symbol of God's presence.
And whenever they carried the
Ark of the Covenant, they won
battles; no one could defeat them.
What does this up here remind
you of, the tabernacle we call
it, where the host is kept?
It is also a symbol of God's
presence, and the living God is there.
We store the particles of the host
there, and when we enter the church, we
look at that tabernacle and worship it.
A church that doesn't have
it, you don't even need to
cross yourself when you enter.
The most important thing is the
red light above, which signifies
that the living God is present.
And now you see, the Israelites gradually
came to see it as a good thing, so great.
We carry that Ark, wherever we go we
win, no one can do anything to us, but
the Lord didn't want it to be magical.
He wanted that Covenant to be about
observing the Ten Commandments.
And one of the things carried
in the Ark as a reminder of this
were the stone tablets inscribed
with the Ten Commandments.
And what was the problem?
The Israelites quickly relied on God's
help, blessings, and victories, but they
stopped keeping the Ten Commandments.
Little by little, they began to mix
with pagans, and what happened then?
Something terrible.
They lost God's protection.
Because God did not want
them to behave that way.
The covenant was not
agreed upon like that.
So, what happens to the confirmands?
What happens to all Christians?
Those who are baptized receive the
sacraments but keep the commandments.
What is one of the commandments?
That we come on Sundays to...
And you must not forget that.
Because Jesus says that whoever
eats and drinks the body
and blood has life in them.
And God noticed how the Israelites
gradually started to distance
themselves from Him in their hearts.
And then He began to warn them, don't do
that, or misfortune will come upon you.
No, they did not experience God.
Just like many of the young people here in
the church, you who will become their age,
we can live physically without God and the
Eucharist, but we are spiritually dead.
We physically live, walk, but we are
greatly exposed to the influence of Satan.
Now, I will explain step by step.
So, when God saw that they were
drifting away, they started mingling
with the pagan people, and they
carried the Ark of the Covenant as a
magical object because it helped them.
And then you have in the Book of
Revelation... Interestingly, the Ark
of the New Covenant is mentioned again.
You know, my young ones, that you have
the Bible, the Old and New Testament.
You must have surpassed that.
So, I was just talking about the Old
Covenant, and in Revelation, it talks
about the New Ark of the Covenant.
And that New Ark of the Covenant is Mary.
Why Mary?
Let's compare.
So, at that time, the Ark of the
Covenant was made from the best wood,
which in our language would be acacia.
Acacia has unique sap and resin and
lasts a long time without rotting.
They built the Ark of the Covenant
from this wood so it wouldn't decay.
Mary, the Ark of the New Covenant, was
assumed into heaven and was not buried.
Her gentle body did not decay.
You see, the Ark of the New Covenant was
adorned by the Israelites with the finest
gold, diamonds, everything they had,
while Mary is naturally a beautiful woman.
Now we come to the core that
is most important to us.
What did they carry in
the Ark of the Covenant?
I already mentioned one thing.
They carried the Ten
Commandments, as the Covenant.
Do you guess what else they carried?
A phone charger?
What do you think was also in
the Ark of the Old Covenant?
How?
Hosts, you said hosts, not hosts,
but it was manna, you're close.
So when God led His people through the
desert, He fed them with manna from
heaven, which is unleavened bread.
And as needed, He would send them bread.
Along with the Ten Commandments, there
was that bread, and there was the
staff, a symbol of Moses' priesthood,
which led them through the desert.
However, when God warned them that they
had strayed, when He warned them to
return, He told them that if they did not
return with their hearts and did not keep
the commandments, they would all perish.
And that is what happened to them.
The Babylonians conquered them, destroyed
Jerusalem, and took them into captivity.
However, a prophet named
Jeremiah managed to hide the
Ark of the Covenant before that.
You see, my dear ones,
they ended up in captivity.
If you do not continue to nourish
yourselves with the body and blood of
Jesus Christ, not just you confirmands,
but all of us, we fall into captivity—not
physical, but the captivity of sin.
Because anyone who does not have the
grace of the Holy Spirit and the strength
given by the Eucharist cannot resist sin.
And then we become slaves to sin.
If the Babylonians destroyed the
Israelites and they fell into
physical slavery, if we are not
nourished by spiritual food,
we do not have life within us.
The Devil will not leave us alone.
He will draw you into various
sins, and then what are we?
Spiritually dead.
And you see how important
it is to understand what is
happening here at the altar.
How important the Eucharist is.
Why is it important?
Maybe some of you, maybe even your parents
or godparents, because they aren't, I
heard confessions yesterday, they aren't
great examples either, because, don't take
it the wrong way, but children look up
to their father, mother, and godparents.
If they don't go to Mass, then
you can't expect your child to go.
So, it's important to
understand what happens at Mass.
Many will say, "I won't go to Mass
because there are gays, pedophiles.
That priest is boring, that one is
old, that one doesn't know..." You
have the right to say all that.
Do you, my little suns, think
that this Mass is valuable
because the priest is good?
Does this Eucharist matter because
the priest is devout, not a thief,
doesn't drive a BMW, or whatever?
And when you look at social media,
and Sunshine and I are with you on
TikTok, I see the nonsense you watch.
So, there are topics like this.
Don't go to Mass, right?
Tell me honestly, let's talk.
Half of you are ashamed to say you go
to church at school, isn't that right?
Who imposed that on you?
Social media is an idol
that isn't for believers.
And Jesus says, who are you conforming to?
This world or Him.
So, what is important for
you to understand now?
That the Mass is so significant and
it always holds value, regardless
of us priests, whether we are
interesting, boring, or whatever.
Here's how.
When did the Israelites
receive manna from heaven?
When God fed them.
Something always happened before that.
Today, we had the election of the
Pope, and before the Pope was chosen,
we all expected that white smoke.
The Israelites, before God would
feed them, expected something
as well; there was a sign that
manna would come from heaven.
Do you know what it was?
It says in the Holy Scripture that
there was always a heavy dew, gentle.
Do you know what dew is?
Like a gentle drizzle.
So, there was always a sign that
manna, food from heaven, would
descend, and that sign was the dew.
Later, when Filip and I celebrate
Mass, listen carefully, we won't say
"sanctify these gifts through us," but
both of us will say, "God, source of all
holiness," and we will extend our hands.
"Sanctify these gifts means we are
addressing God, just as in the Old
Testament the source symbol of bread that
would come from heaven was dew, here in
the New Testament it is the Holy Spirit.
And that is why we will extend our
hand and say, 'God, source of all
holiness, sanctify these gifts.'
And you see, the Eucharist is valid
regardless of what the priests are like.
Every sacrament is
valid, regardless of us.
We need to be examples, but it should
not be your mantra and decision
to stop going to church after
confirmation because of this or that."
So we look for an excuse for our,
what is it called, I preached last
Thursday, it's called, how the sun,
you who listened, spiritual laziness.
Yes, that's why you need to
be aware of what is happening.
If we do not eat the body and blood of
Christ, it means Jesus at the Last Supper
did not say come when you are well-rested,
come if you don't have training, come if
it doesn't rain, come if it's not sunny,
but Jesus explicitly says whoever eats and
drinks my body and blood has eternal life.
Point.
Now, look at this.
How do we behave at Mass?
The first sign of how much we
believe that Jesus is truly
present in that piece of bread.
How many of you truly believe that?
How many?
See, there's no need to doubt, hesitate,
or be ashamed; it should be clear.
I believe.
But obviously, not all of us believe.
It is said that a Muslim went to
Mass with his Catholic friend, and
the Catholic tried to prepare him,
to explain what happens at Mass.
He said, "We Christians believe
that this bread becomes the body of
Christ, that this wine becomes the
blood of Christ," to give him some
context about what we do at Mass.
And now, this Muslim observed, the
Mass ended, and his friend asked him,
"So, what do you think?" The Muslim
replied, "Listen, I don't believe that
you believe that the bread and wine
become the body and blood of Christ."
This person says, "Well, it's okay, you're
a Muslim, you were raised in a different
faith, and that's completely normal."
But he says, "No, no, no, I misspoke.
I don't believe that you
believers actually believe
that this is the living God.
Because if I, as a Muslim,
believed what you believe, I
would kneel and not lift my head."
Do you understand?
I would kneel out of reverent fear.
The first sign of how much we
believe in this is reverent fear.
Reverent fear is not the same as being
afraid of something; it's a deep respect.
You can see it when we take communion,
when we enter the church, how we kneel.
Most of you come to Mass on Sundays, and
you know how my heart aches when I see
people leaving in groups right after the
sign of the cross, as if they came to Mass
just to check it off their list, to get
a plus so they can receive confirmation.
It means you haven't understood,
because if you believed that the
living God is there, you wouldn't
be running out of the church, you
wouldn't skip church on Sundays.
I know some of you are listening to
me now and looking at me blankly,
and I know half of you won't be here.
But I've seen with my own eyes what
happens on Sundays—talking, joking around.
I understand your age, and I
understand that maybe you don't
fully grasp what's happening.
That's why I'm telling you, my dear ones.
Another thing I like to emphasize is how
to know if this is truly the living God.
It often happens here, not just
here but in churches, that Satanists
steal and resell consecrated hosts.
There was a price of
around one hundred euros.
You know that at the Capitol you
have these Christian stores where
you can buy in bulk, you can go and
buy a kilo of hosts, a bag of hosts.
So then, my question is, why do those
who resell, steal hosts from the church,
sell them to Satanists to desecrate them?
Why don't they just pass
off these unconsecrated ones
and make a lot more money?
Why do they have to risk coming to
the church here when one of us might
notice them stealing the hosts?
We've stopped people before
and made them consume the host.
Why don't they just go to
the store, buy them, and sell
them every day, at least 506?
Because they are not
blessed, not consecrated.
Bravo, Sokola.
Bravo.
So, because it is not
consecrated, what does that mean?
Satan, the devil, knows exactly
which one is consecrated.
He is not afraid of an unconsecrated host.
I'm not trying to scare you, you are
confirmands, but let me tell you, when
my faith in the Blessed Sacrament grew,
that's when I saw that Jesus is alive.
So, I was leading, there was a priest, and
I was still a layperson, not yet a priest.
So, I went with him as an escort,
my first spiritual retreat.
The priest had adoration and took
the Blessed Sacrament, like the
adoration we have on Thursdays, and
blessed each person individually.
And when he showed it to one woman,
she started throwing herself on
the floor, screaming, yelling.
So, that's a manifestation.
If it were just ordinary bread, why would
that woman be throwing herself around?
You see how Satan knows
what is holy, but we do not.
Some of you might have been at
the DDV once when a woman here was
possessed, and whenever someone starts
having reactions, we move them to
the sacristy, which is this room.
We don't see the altar from the sacristy.
I remember well when I took the
Blessed Sacrament to bless and
turned it towards the sacristy.
She couldn't see what I
was doing, but Satan could.
So she started having reactions.
So I'm just telling you this, how Satan
believes in the Holy Eucharist, and we
dismiss it so lightly, we don't respect
it, we can't be bothered, yet we want to
be spiritually strong, to resist Satan.
How?
So, before the liberation of the Israeli
people began, the Angel of Death came,
and do you know what God told them?
You who anoint the doorposts
and place the sign of the lamb's
blood, it will pass over you.
We, Christians, when we drink the body
and blood of Christ, Satan flees from us.
The devil flees from us.
If in the Old Testament that was a
symbol of animal blood, imagine how much
the blood of Jesus Christ protects us.
That is why the Eucharist is so important,
so that the spirit of laziness does
not catch you, so that your going to
Mass is not something your mom and
dad have to push you to do with a
broom, but that a desire is awakened
in you, that you discover it yourself.
And look, the first reading
was about that Philip.
At confirmation, what do you receive?
Gifts.
Recently, there have been many
articles online about how much money
should be given for confirmation.
You see how we've degraded the
reception of the sacrament.
All the portals are now writing about
the confirmation season, asking how
much money is appropriate to give.
We've completely shifted the meaning
of confirmation to commercialism.
You, my dears, don't even
know how to dress anymore.
Thank God they invented these robes.
That you are all uniform.
It has become so commercialized,
the sacraments, confirmations,
baptisms, and everything, that
the spiritual essence is lost.
And that's dangerous.
In today's first reading, a
certain Philip is mentioned.
Not Father Philip, but Philip.
And it says something to him, it
says, the Holy Spirit told him.
It urged him to get up and go.
What do you receive?
The Seal of the Gift of the Holy Spirit.
The Holy Spirit will be upon
you, and we will pray for you.
That the Holy Spirit may inspire
you as He inspired Philip
today to approach that pagan.
And we will pray that the Holy
Spirit inspires you too, my dears.
And if you stray from God and
fall into sin, do not give up.
Your conscience, the Holy Spirit will
speak to you through your conscience.
Do not give up on God and the church.
Never be ashamed of Jesus,
anywhere or anytime.
Everyone will disappoint you, my dears.
Your best friends, love,
future, job, career, everything.
Jesus has never disappointed anyone.
How beautiful it is when you can,
like tonight, stay before the Blessed
Sacrament and bathe your soul.
Stay and let your tears flow, let
Jesus touch your wounds a little.
I feel sorry, I know you are young,
but you are not so protected.
Life has grazed you too, and I have
noticed how that age boundary has lowered.
So, we are all exposed today to fears,
anxieties, sins, and everything.
And then, never be afraid to
come before Jesus and kneel.
And believe me, I know,
the living Jesus is here.
Whenever the church is open,
wherever you pass by, pray.
Even if you don't know anything, just
come, just come before Him and you will
see how the meaning of faith changes.
And what happens then?
What happened to the eunuch in that first
reading I mentioned with Philip happens.
The Holy Spirit prompted Philip
to approach the chariot and say,
a high dignitary of Candace, the
queen of Ethiopia, was passing by.
He lived at the court with the queen,
he had everything, but he was unhappy.
How many Christians do we have
today who have everything but
are unhappy, but are empty?
And the Holy Spirit prompted Philip
to approach him and ask, "Do you
understand what you are reading?" See
how important it is for you to understand
what is happening in the sacrament.
So Philip asks the eunuch, and he says,
"I don't know unless someone teaches me."
And you see, that eunuch was
infertile, but he was religious.
He was traveling because he was
on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem.
He was doing things according to the
rules, but he still didn't feel anything.
How many of us go on pilgrimages,
attend events, come here to DDV,
but not all come because of God.
Some come to find a girlfriend, some
because they are bored at home, some
because they have no company, but thank
God, sometimes God turns that into
something good and changes their attitude.
Sometimes we are just religious,
but nothing burns within us.
And then we need someone to teach us.
The Holy Spirit is the one
who intercedes for all of us.
And what I love most is what the Holy
Scripture says about the Holy Spirit.
Jesus says, if I do not go, the
Advocate will not come—the Spirit
of comfort, the Spirit of truth,
who will teach you everything.
Here comes the sun, my dear, I would
love for the Holy Spirit to truly
awaken that love and passion in you,
just as Philip awakened it in the
Eunuch, so that you burn with it
because he was ultimately baptized.
He was baptized in the
fire of the Holy Spirit.
I hope that you too will be baptized on
Sunday, but with the true fire of the
Holy Spirit, not just to go through the
confirmation, but for it to truly be
a seal of your love for Jesus Christ.
Amen.